---
title: 5 Tips for Tech Conferences
image: redhat.jpg
---

I started my career during the early days of the Internet... well
before there existed great technical resources like Stack Overflow.
When you had a tricky problem with a framework or operating system,
you had limited places to go to.  Books were often out-of-date or too
high-level, vendor support could be costly & take time to acquire and
a few specialized forums like Yahoo groups where participation varied
widely by topic.

Back then conferences were then a great way to get deep technical
information directly from the vendors that you simply wouldn't find
online.  Additionally you could find that guy who hit the same kernel
bug that you were facing.  You'd excitedly exchange notes & email
addresses and expand your view of the world.

Nowadays, in terms of cost vs. benefit sending your team members to a
conference is debatable.  It's become a big business... nearly
doubling this decade according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Registration and travel costs are high compared to a typical business
trip.  Additionally, any big announcements from the vendor are tweeted
out immediately and often the full content becomes available via blog
post & youtube in the weeks following.

However, there are still good reasons to send your team members to
tech conferences or attend yourself.  Here are some tips to help make
the most of the investment...

### 1. Network

At lunch/breakfast lunch, don't sit at the table with everyone else
from your company... make yourself a little uncomfortable & sit at
another table.  If those guys aren't talking (as can happen in our
industry of introverts) move to another table.

Seek out that guy who asked the question in a talk that you were going
to ask - chances are he's having a similar problem.

### 2. Connect with the speakers

More & more I see these conferences stealing ideas from rock concerts
with light shows, huge screens, pounding bass and lavish
after-parties.

All of this spectacle can create the impression that the speakers
themselves are (like rock stars) unattainable celebrities.  They are
not.  Most of these guys spend a normal day at a keyboard, just like
you.  If you have deeper questions not addressed in the talk, seek
them out!  I've had luck usually hanging around after the talk, but if
that's not feasible hit them up on email or Twitter to meet-up for 
coffee later.


### 3. Immerse yourself

Your manager could say _I want you to spend 100% of your time next
week learning about technology X_... but in practice, distractions
will inevitably creep in.  There's a lot to be said for using the
conference as a "retreat" from the daily grind and allowing yourself
to focus on one topic for a few days.

Set your out-of-office to let the team know you'll be out of pocket
during the day, avoid reading your emails, work with your manager to
opt-out of calls/meetings unless it's an emergency.


### 4. Pay it forward

Don't wait until you're back to write-up a trip report.  Take good
notes about the experience in the moment with an eye toward
applicability to your product.  Distill it into a blog post on the way
home.  Bonus points if you can demo some of the technology &
techniques you learned in a live session.

### 5. Swag

Last and definitely least - is the swag.  Although I'll be the first
to admit I've elbowed my way through a crowd to get my hands on a
plastic gadget, let's admit this stuff is usually junk.  But hey
free is free!

 ###

Photo is a shirt you wouldn't be caught dead in outside of the conference.